# [Landslide4Sat PL]: Assessment of Semantic Segmentation Models for Landslide Monitoring Using Satellite Imagery in Peruvian Andes

This repository is associated with the paper "Assessment of Semantic Segmentation Models for Landslide Monitoring Using Satellite Imagery in Peruvian Andes" and includes datasets, models, and scripts utilized in the study.

## Repository Structure
- **config.yaml**: Configuration file for setting up the environment and model parameters.
- **data/** `database`: Directory containing the training data used for model development.
- **data_validation.xlsx**: Excel file for validation of the collected data.
- **get_data.R** `database`: R script for data retrieval processes.
- **get_data_utils.R** `database`: R utility functions supporting data retrieval.
- **lightning_logs/**: Logs generated by PyTorch Lightning during model training.
- **models/**: Directory where trained models are saved.
- **requirements.txt**: A text file listing the dependencies required for the project.
- **scripts/**: A collection of scripts for dataset creation, model training, and evaluation.
## Scripts Detail
- **create_fig.py**: Script to generate figures from the data.
- **dataset.py**: Defines the dataset class used in the models.
- **download_img.py**: Utility script for downloading images.
- **ee_utils.py**: Earth Engine utility functions.
- **model.py**: Defines the machine learning models used in the project.
- **train.py**: Script for model training.
- **upload_gee.py**: Scripts for uploading models to Google Earth Engine.

## Process
### Database generation
1. The [Landslide4Sense dataset](https://www.iarai.ac.at/landslide4sense/challenge/) was downloaded. This database contains 3799 labelled patches in h5 format.
2. The L4S-PE dataset has been expanded with local Peruvian scenarios, totaling 838 annotated images for a comprehensive analysis of landslides in the region. [IRIS](https://github.com/ESA-PhiLab/iris) was used for labelling process.
3. First database was generated with a dimension of 150x150, after labelling process it was splitting to create a 128x128 (wxh)
4. Dataset are separated as L4S (from the challenge) with 3799 images and L4S-PE, the new dataset for peruvian andes with 838 patches.

### Semantic Segmentation Models
Our experiments with U-net architecture and specialized loss functions have set a new benchmark in performance for landslide detection, achieving a formidable F1-Score of 75.5%.

### Cloud-based Monitoring Framework
We have developed a cloud-based monitoring system leveraging Google Earth Engine, designed to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of landslide detection and monitoring.



## Usage
Please refer to requirements.txt for setting up the necessary environment. Each script is well-commented and includes usage instructions at the beginning of the file.

## License
This project is licensed under the LICENSE included in the repository.

## Contact
For inquiries regarding the research or requests for collaboration, please refer to the contact information provided in the manuscript or raise an issue in this GitHub repository.


## Code Availability
All code and resources are open-source and available in this repository. Metrics from our experiments can be accessed on Weight & Biases at https://wandb.ai/ryali/lanslide_pl.

## Citation
Please cite the following paper if you use the data or the codes: 

```
@article{tbd}
```